# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`nrpe`](#nrpe): Installs and configures NRPE

#### Private Classes

* `nrpe::config`: Configures NRPE
* `nrpe::config::ssl`: Configures SSL for NRPE
* `nrpe::install`: Installs required NRPE packages
* `nrpe::params`: Sets defaults based on OS
* `nrpe::service`: Manages the NRPE service

### Defined types

* [`nrpe::command`](#nrpe--command): Installs NRPE commands
* [`nrpe::plugin`](#nrpe--plugin): Installs additional plugins for NRPE

### Functions

#### Private Functions

* `nrpe::ssl_logging`: A function that outputs a string suitable for the nrpe.conf `ssl_logging` parameter.  The nrpe.conf documentation has the following to say...

### Data types

* [`Nrpe::Sslversion`](#Nrpe--Sslversion)
* [`Nrpe::Syslogfacility`](#Nrpe--Syslogfacility)

## Classes

### <a name="nrpe"></a>`nrpe`

Installs and configures NRPE

* **See also**
  * https://github.com/NagiosEnterprises/nrpe
  * https://github.com/NagiosEnterprises/nrpe/blob/master/README.SSL.md

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
class { 'nrpe':
  allowed_hosts => [
    '127.0.0.1',
    'nagios.example.org',
  ],
}
```

##### With SSL

```puppet
class { 'nrpe':
  allowed_hosts               => 'nagios.example.org',
  ssl_cert_file_content       => file('profile/ssl/nagios.example.org.crt'),
  ssl_privatekey_file_content => file('profile/ssl/nagios.example.org.key'),
  ssl_cacert_file_content     => file('profile/ssl/GeoTrust_RSA_CA_2018.crt'),
  ssl_client_certs            => 'require',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `nrpe` class:

* [`allowed_hosts`](#-nrpe--allowed_hosts)
* [`server_address`](#-nrpe--server_address)
* [`commands`](#-nrpe--commands)
* [`plugins`](#-nrpe--plugins)
* [`command_timeout`](#-nrpe--command_timeout)
* [`package_name`](#-nrpe--package_name)
* [`manage_package`](#-nrpe--manage_package)
* [`purge`](#-nrpe--purge)
* [`dont_blame_nrpe`](#-nrpe--dont_blame_nrpe)
* [`log_facility`](#-nrpe--log_facility)
* [`server_port`](#-nrpe--server_port)
* [`command_prefix`](#-nrpe--command_prefix)
* [`debug`](#-nrpe--debug)
* [`connection_timeout`](#-nrpe--connection_timeout)
* [`allow_weak_random_seed`](#-nrpe--allow_weak_random_seed)
* [`allow_bash_command_substitution`](#-nrpe--allow_bash_command_substitution)
* [`nrpe_user`](#-nrpe--nrpe_user)
* [`nrpe_group`](#-nrpe--nrpe_group)
* [`nrpe_pid_file`](#-nrpe--nrpe_pid_file)
* [`command_file_default_mode`](#-nrpe--command_file_default_mode)
* [`supplementary_groups`](#-nrpe--supplementary_groups)
* [`nrpe_ssl_dir`](#-nrpe--nrpe_ssl_dir)
* [`ssl_cert_file_content`](#-nrpe--ssl_cert_file_content)
* [`ssl_privatekey_file_content`](#-nrpe--ssl_privatekey_file_content)
* [`ssl_cacert_file_content`](#-nrpe--ssl_cacert_file_content)
* [`ssl_version`](#-nrpe--ssl_version)
* [`ssl_ciphers`](#-nrpe--ssl_ciphers)
* [`ssl_client_certs`](#-nrpe--ssl_client_certs)
* [`ssl_log_startup_params`](#-nrpe--ssl_log_startup_params)
* [`ssl_log_remote_ip`](#-nrpe--ssl_log_remote_ip)
* [`ssl_log_protocol_version`](#-nrpe--ssl_log_protocol_version)
* [`ssl_log_cipher`](#-nrpe--ssl_log_cipher)
* [`ssl_log_client_cert`](#-nrpe--ssl_log_client_cert)
* [`ssl_log_client_cert_details`](#-nrpe--ssl_log_client_cert_details)
* [`manage_pid_dir`](#-nrpe--manage_pid_dir)
* [`config`](#-nrpe--config)
* [`include_dir`](#-nrpe--include_dir)
* [`provider`](#-nrpe--provider)
* [`service_name`](#-nrpe--service_name)
* [`listen_queue_size`](#-nrpe--listen_queue_size)

##### <a name="-nrpe--allowed_hosts"></a>`allowed_hosts`

Data type: `Array[Variant[Stdlib::Fqdn,Stdlib::IP::Address]]`

Specifies the hosts that NRPE will accept connections from.

Default value: `['127.0.0.1']`

##### <a name="-nrpe--server_address"></a>`server_address`

Data type: `Stdlib::IP::Address`

Specifies the IP address of the inteface that NRPE should bind to. Useful when the system has more than one interface.

Default value: `'0.0.0.0'`

##### <a name="-nrpe--commands"></a>`commands`

Data type: `Hash`

A Hash of `nrpe::command` resources you want to create.  Recommended when you want to define `nrpe::command`s in hiera data.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-nrpe--plugins"></a>`plugins`

Data type: `Hash`

A Hash of `nrpe::plugin` resources you want to create.  Recommended when you want to define `nrpe::plugin`s in hiera data.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-nrpe--command_timeout"></a>`command_timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Specifies the maximum number of seconds that the NRPE daemon will allow plugins to finish executing before killing them off.

Default value: `60`

##### <a name="-nrpe--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

The package name or array of package names that will be installed. The default is often fine, but you may wish to set this to install extra packages like `nrpe-selinux`.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_packages`

##### <a name="-nrpe--manage_package"></a>`manage_package`

Data type: `Boolean`

By default, set to `true` and the `nrpe` class will manage the OS package(s).

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-nrpe--purge"></a>`purge`

Data type: `Boolean`

When set to true, the module will purge any unmanaged commands from the NRPE includedir.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--dont_blame_nrpe"></a>`dont_blame_nrpe`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether or not the NRPE daemon will allow clients to specify arguments to commands that are executed. ENABLING THIS OPTION IS A SECURITY RISK!

Default value: `$nrpe::params::dont_blame_nrpe`

##### <a name="-nrpe--log_facility"></a>`log_facility`

Data type: `Nrpe::Syslogfacility`

The syslog facility that should be used for logging purposes.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::log_facility`

##### <a name="-nrpe--server_port"></a>`server_port`

Data type: `Stdlib::Port::Unprivileged`

The port that NRPE should listen for connections on.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::server_port`

##### <a name="-nrpe--command_prefix"></a>`command_prefix`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

This option allows you to prefix all commands with a user-defined string.  Although often used to run all commands with sudo, `nrpe::command` has dedicated `sudo` parameters for this.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::command_prefix`

##### <a name="-nrpe--debug"></a>`debug`

Data type: `Boolean`

This option determines whether or not debugging messages are logged to the syslog facility.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::debug`

##### <a name="-nrpe--connection_timeout"></a>`connection_timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Specifies the maximum number of seconds that the NRPE daemon will wait for a connection to be established before exiting.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::connection_timeout`

##### <a name="-nrpe--allow_weak_random_seed"></a>`allow_weak_random_seed`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether or not the NRPE daemon will use weak sources of randomness

Default value: `$nrpe::params::allow_weak_random_seed`

##### <a name="-nrpe--allow_bash_command_substitution"></a>`allow_bash_command_substitution`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Determines whether or not the NRPE daemon will allow clients to specify arguments that contain bash command substitutions of the form `$(...)`. ** ENABLING THIS OPTION IS A HIGH SECURITY RISK! **

Default value: `$nrpe::params::allow_bash_command_substitution`

##### <a name="-nrpe--nrpe_user"></a>`nrpe_user`

Data type: `String[1]`

Determines the effective user that the NRPE daemon should run as.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_user`

##### <a name="-nrpe--nrpe_group"></a>`nrpe_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Determines the effective group that the NRPE daemon should run as.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_group`

##### <a name="-nrpe--nrpe_pid_file"></a>`nrpe_pid_file`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The name of the file in which the NRPE daemon should write it's process ID number.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_pid_file`

##### <a name="-nrpe--command_file_default_mode"></a>`command_file_default_mode`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

The default file mode to use when creating NRPE command files in the includedir.

Default value: `'0644'`

##### <a name="-nrpe--supplementary_groups"></a>`supplementary_groups`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

If set, the `nrpe_user` will be added to these supplementary groups.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-nrpe--nrpe_ssl_dir"></a>`nrpe_ssl_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The directory that SSL certificates and keys will be created in.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_ssl_dir`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_cert_file_content"></a>`ssl_cert_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A string containing the SSL Certificate.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_privatekey_file_content"></a>`ssl_privatekey_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A string containing the SSL private **KEY**.  It is recommended to source this parameter from hiera and use EYAML or similar to encrypt the data.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_cacert_file_content"></a>`ssl_cacert_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A string containing the SSL CA Cert file contents.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_version"></a>`ssl_version`

Data type: `Nrpe::Sslversion`

The SSL Version to use.  The default of `TLSv1.2+` is the most secure option available at time of writing.  Avoid having to set it to a lower value if possible.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::ssl_version`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_ciphers"></a>`ssl_ciphers`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of ciphers that should be allowed by NRPE.  The defaults are for RSA keys and were taken from https://github.com/ssllabs/research/wiki/SSL-and-TLS-Deployment-Best-Practices.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::ssl_ciphers`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_client_certs"></a>`ssl_client_certs`

Data type: `Enum['no','ask','require']`

This options determines client certificate usage.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::ssl_client_certs`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_log_startup_params"></a>`ssl_log_startup_params`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log startup SSL/TLS parameters.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_log_remote_ip"></a>`ssl_log_remote_ip`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log remote IP address of SSL client.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_log_protocol_version"></a>`ssl_log_protocol_version`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log SSL/TLS version of connections.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_log_cipher"></a>`ssl_log_cipher`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log which encryption cipher is being used for SSL connections.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_log_client_cert"></a>`ssl_log_client_cert`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log if an SSL client has presented a certificate.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--ssl_log_client_cert_details"></a>`ssl_log_client_cert_details`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log details of client SSL certificates.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--manage_pid_dir"></a>`manage_pid_dir`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the directory where the PID file should exist.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--config"></a>`config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_config`

##### <a name="-nrpe--include_dir"></a>`include_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_include_dir`

##### <a name="-nrpe--provider"></a>`provider`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_provider`

##### <a name="-nrpe--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_service`

##### <a name="-nrpe--listen_queue_size"></a>`listen_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Listen queue size (backlog) for serving incoming connections. You may want to increase this value under high load.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::listen_queue_size`

## Defined types

### <a name="nrpe--command"></a>`nrpe::command`

Installs NRPE commands

#### Examples

##### Install a command called `check_users`

```puppet
nrpe::command { 'check_users':
  ensure  => present,
  command => 'check_users -w 5 -c 10',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `nrpe::command` defined type:

* [`name`](#-nrpe--command--name)
* [`command`](#-nrpe--command--command)
* [`ensure`](#-nrpe--command--ensure)
* [`file_mode`](#-nrpe--command--file_mode)
* [`sudo`](#-nrpe--command--sudo)
* [`sudo_user`](#-nrpe--command--sudo_user)

##### <a name="-nrpe--command--name"></a>`name`

The name of the command.

##### <a name="-nrpe--command--command"></a>`command`

Data type: `String[1]`

The command plugin to run and its arguments.

##### <a name="-nrpe--command--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Whether to install or remove the command.

Default value: `present`

##### <a name="-nrpe--command--file_mode"></a>`file_mode`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filemode]`

The mode to use for the command file.  By default, this parameter is `undef`, and the command file will use `$nrpe::command_file_default_mode`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-nrpe--command--sudo"></a>`sudo`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether the command should use sudo.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-nrpe--command--sudo_user"></a>`sudo_user`

Data type: `String[1]`

The user to run the command as when using sudo.

Default value: `'root'`

### <a name="nrpe--plugin"></a>`nrpe::plugin`

Installs additional plugins for NRPE

#### Examples

##### Install a `check_mem` plugin from a file hosted in your `site` module

```puppet
nrpe::plugin { 'check_mem':
  ensure => present,
  source => 'puppet:///modules/site/nrpe/check_mem',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `nrpe::plugin` defined type:

* [`name`](#-nrpe--plugin--name)
* [`ensure`](#-nrpe--plugin--ensure)
* [`content`](#-nrpe--plugin--content)
* [`source`](#-nrpe--plugin--source)

##### <a name="-nrpe--plugin--name"></a>`name`

The name of the plugin.

##### <a name="-nrpe--plugin--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Whether to install or remove the plugin.

Default value: `present`

##### <a name="-nrpe--plugin--content"></a>`content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Defines the actual content of the plugin file.  Should not be used in conjunction with `source`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-nrpe--plugin--source"></a>`source`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filesource]`

Defines the source of the plugin file. Should not be used in conjunction with `content`.

Default value: `undef`

## Data types

### <a name="Nrpe--Sslversion"></a>`Nrpe::Sslversion`

The Nrpe::Sslversion data type.

Alias of `Enum['SSLv2', 'SSLv2+', 'SSLv3', 'SSLv3+', 'TLSv1', 'TLSv1+', 'TLSv1.1', 'TLSv1.1+', 'TLSv1.2', 'TLSv1.2+']`

### <a name="Nrpe--Syslogfacility"></a>`Nrpe::Syslogfacility`

The Nrpe::Syslogfacility data type.

Alias of `Enum['user', 'mail', 'daemon', 'auth', 'syslog', 'lpr', 'news', 'uucp', 'cron', 'authpriv', 'ftp', 'ntp', 'security', 'console', 'solaris-cron', 'local0', 'local1', 'local2', 'local3', 'local4', 'local5', 'local6', 'local7']`

